Jenkins Installation Setup with Two Agents (win-agent and lose-agent)
1. Overview
This documentation provides a step-by-step guide on how to install Jenkins on a master node and configure two agents:

win-agent
lose-agent

Jenkins is an open-source automation server that is commonly used for continuous integration (CI) and continuous delivery (CD). It allows you to automate the build, test, and deployment processes.
 
2. Prerequisites
Before starting the installation, ensure the following:

Master Node (Jenkins Server): A machine where Jenkins will be installed.

OS: Windows, Linux, or macOS.
Java 8 or higher should be installed.
win-agent:

A machine with Windows 10 or Server version.
Java 8 or higher installed.
lose-agent:

A machine with any popular Linux distribution (e.g., Ubuntu, CentOS).
Java 8 or higher installed.

3. Jenkins Installation on Master Node
A. Install Jenkins on Master Node
Download Jenkins:

For Windows:

Download the Jenkins installer from the official website: Jenkins Download Page.
Choose the Windows installer (e.g., .msi).
For Linux:

Follow the instructions for your Linux distribution (e.g., Ubuntu, CentOS).
For Ubuntu:

sudo apt update
sudo apt install openjdk-17-jdk
wget -q -O - https://pkg.jenkins.io/keys/jenkins.io.key | sudo apt-key add -
sudo sh -c 'echo deb http://pkg.jenkins.io/debian/ jenkins.io/ > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/jenkins.list'
sudo apt update
sudo apt install jenkins

Start Jenkins:

For Windows, run the installer and follow the installation steps.
For Linux:

sudo systemctl start jenkins
sudo systemctl enable jenkins

Access Jenkins:

Once Jenkins is running, open a browser and navigate to:

http://localhost:8080
If it's installed on a remote machine, use the IP address or hostname instead.

Unlock Jenkins:

To unlock Jenkins, retrieve the unlock key from the following location:
Windows: C:\Program Files (x86)\Jenkins\secrets\initialAdminPassword
Linux: /var/lib/jenkins/secrets/initialAdminPassword
Copy and paste the key into the Jenkins setup page.

Install Suggested Plugins:

On the setup wizard, Jenkins will ask you to install plugins. Select "Install suggested plugins."
Create First Admin User:

After the plugin installation, Jenkins will prompt you to create the first admin user. Set the user credentials.

4. Setup and Configure Agents
A. Configure win-agent
Prepare the Windows Agent Machine:

Ensure Java is installed on the agent machine.

java -version
If Java is not installed, download and install it from Java Official sit.
Add win-agent as a Node in Jenkins:

From the Jenkins dashboard (on the master node), go to Manage Jenkins → Manage Nodes and Clouds → New Node.
Enter the node name (e.g., win-agent).
Select Permanent Agent and click OK.

Configure win-agent:

In the node configuration, provide:
Remote Root Directory: The directory on the agent machine where Jenkins will store files. Example: C:\jenkins
Labels: Labels can be used to group agents and assign jobs to specific agents.
Launch method: Select Launch agent via Java Web Start.

Generate Agent Connection Command:

Click Save to generate the agent launch command.
On the Jenkins master node, click Launch. This will generate a command to run on the win-agent machine.
Copy the JNLP file provided for the Windows agent.
Run the Agent on the win-agent Machine:

On the Windows agent machine, double-click the JNLP file to start the agent. This will establish the connection to the Jenkins master.
Verify Agent is Online:

Once the agent starts, check the Manage Nodes page in Jenkins. The win-agent should show as Online.
B. Configure lose-agent
Follow same steps as win-agent.

The agent will show up as Online once the connection is successful.

5. Verifying the Setup
Test the Agents:

Create a simple Jenkins job (e.g., a freestyle project/pipeline) and assign it to run on the win-agent or lose-agent, using the Restrict where this project can be run option (under the General section).
Build the job and verify that it runs successfully on the designated agent.

Monitor the Agents:

You can monitor the status of the agents from Manage Jenkins → Manage Nodes.
Both win-agent and lose-agent should be online if everything is set up correctly.

6. Troubleshooting
win-agent:

If the agent doesn't connect, ensure that Java is properly installed and that the JNLP file is being executed correctly.
Check the firewall settings to ensure that Jenkins can communicate through the required port (default: 8080).
lose-agent:

If Jenkins cannot connect via SSH, verify that SSH is properly configured and that the correct SSH keys are in place.
Ensure the agent machine's firewall allows incoming connections on port 22 (for SSH).

7. Conclusion
You have now set up Jenkins on a master node with two agents: win-agent (Windows) and lose-agent (Linux). These agents will allow Jenkins to distribute workloads across different operating systems, making the CI/CD pipeline more flexible and scalable.

8. Additional Resources
Jenkins Official Documentation
Jenkins Agent Configuration

This documentation outlines the installation and setup process in detail. If you need more specific steps or additional configuration, feel free to ask!
